# Fiona and Rasterio: Data Access for Python Programmers and Future Python
# Programmers

## Brief Description

(One paragraph, 400 chars max)

Learn to read, manipulate, and write raster and vector data using the
productive and fun GDAL-based Python libraries named Fiona and Rasterio. They
are open source projects informed by a decade of experience using Python, GDAL,
and OGR and aim to help skilled Python programmers level up in the geospatial
domain and help GIS professionals level up in Python programming.

## Detailed Abstract

(Public if proposal is accepted)

Fiona and Rasterio are new GDAL-based Python libraries that embody lessons
learned over a decade of using GDAL and Python to solve geospatial problems.
Among these lessons: the importance of productivity, enjoyability, and
serendipity to both experts and beginners.

I will discuss the motivation for writing Fiona and Rasterio and explain how
and why they diverge from other GIS software and embrace Python's native types,
protocols, and idioms. I will also explain why they adhere to some GIS
paradigms and bend or break others. 

Finally, I will show examples of using Fiona and Rasterio to read, manipulate,
and write raster and vector data. Some examples will be familiar to users of
older Python GIS software and will illustrate how Fiona and Rasterio let you
get more done with less code and fewer bugs. I will also demonstrate fun and
useful features not found in other geospatial libraries.

## Additional Notes

(The pitch. Not part of conference materials)

The FIona home page: https://github.com/Toblerity/Fiona.
The Rasterio home page: https://github.com/mapbox/rasterio.

Along with slides, I will make the examples in my talk available as an IPython
notebook.

The "for programmers and future programmers" phrase in the title is my short
way of saying that I am trying, through Rasterio/Fiona/Shapely, to teach GIS
analysts who are not yet experienced programmers how to use the Python language
to its fullest.
